So, I'm ready to crank out another mini-novel. This is primarily for my ESL students. I inted to use the snowflake method and crank it up to the four-page step. Then I'll add some English lessons to them. 

After that though, I want to add it to protagonize and get some collaboration going on it. I'll break it down into about 15 chapters...and then buff them up to 50 pages. A nice mini-novel for an amazon book. 

And then maybe after that...let the collaboration grow into a full-blown book novel with 200+ plus pages. It could be a real grow story grow. 

But for now, I'm just looking for some good ideas. I want to write some good, interesting stories for my ESL students and let them get involved. See what they like or don't like. Then build on that and teach them things in English. 

Now, I know that there are a couple of things going on here. These are things that could grow into a series. Especially if we can gather a fan base around them and the story is popular. Fan folloings for fiction. 

I've been reading that there are popular formats for story series. 

1. Super-hero: Think Superman, Spiderman, Wolverine, etc. DC/Marvel style. These seem to be extremely popular these days. Comics, movies, series, etc. We could maybe flip our stories into comic books and movies as well. If not full movies, at least cartoons. We could definitely use Goanimate or a similar tool to illustrate the stories to make them esier for students to understand. 
2. Science-Fiction: Think Star Treck, Star Wars, Aliens, etc. More movies, promotional items, etc. Crazy, random, impossible situations on other planets or in other times. Sci-fi has the potential to really create a fan base following. 
3. Horror: Even though I'm not a big fan of terror movies...a good sunspenseful story really does a lot to draw the reader/viewer in. And the genre has massive followings i.e. Stephen King
4. Christian: This would be more for the niche. Lots of readers. Some sort of rouge rebel struggling with faith and supernatural 'gifts' that allow him to do justice. 

And then somehow, tying this all in with English lessons. 

We could call this an alternate universe with super-heros receiving gifts like Samson/Solomon. They have powers/weaknesses. Do amazing things, yet have their vulnerablities. They have nemesis and archrivals. Fighting supernaturally on a spirtual plane. Angels and demons. Lots of adventure and suspense. Delving into a world of futuristic technology, time/space travel to other planets to fight terrible villains who our set on wreaking havoc on mankind. (Variation on MIB). 

There is a whole level of playing into daily life and situations for English students. And at the same time touching on controversial topics and bringing ecological, political, religious issues and questions to light. More questions than answers. Curiosity. Provide user forums for debate. 

And finally, just the sheer creative imagination freedom possible in a universe where anything is possible. Focusing on good writing that is entertaining, captivating, and awesome. 

So, where does that leave us now. 

We need an idea. Quantum Jump. SAT. BAT. Goal. Etc. Or just let creativity flow and have fun with this. 

I intend to come up with an idea for a new novel in 15 words or less for my ESL students that I can flip into comics, scripts, movies, etc. And collaborate with others for a full novel.

Let the brainstorm begin. 

This is about a guy named… Marcus. 

He lives in a dark, cold city. 

Covered bubble, futuristic version of New York. 

For no other reason than because they can have a bubble. To clear pollution. Protection from alien races. No. Maybe there is no buble. Just a regular New York city. 

There is a bubble city off in Area 51. Keep aliens in or out. 

So, Marcus knows about it. An alien escapes. Humanoid. Wants to thrive on hosts. Blood-sucking villain. Marcus has some sort of power. Super vision installed. Mega memory. Tracking. Family was destroyed by this critter. He wants justice. He doesn't know about it yet. He's told it's a robbery. Gut instinct. Attacked and fights back. 

Starts to put 2 and 2 together. Hunts this thing down. Receives insight through dream and visit from an 'angel'. He's told to lay off. Ends up losing everything. Has an ex-partner who is now a wealthy business tycoon. Helps him out to a certain point. Somehow involved. Not directly, but he is bad/borderline good...while Marcus is good/boderline bad. 

Blood of an ancient race flowing through Marcus veins. Special protection/power. Ex-partner jealous/against his clan. Not overtly, but undercurrent. Love/Hate relationship. 

Marcus struggles with faith after family's death...but at the same time inspired and hopeful. Boderline suicidal. Nothing left to lose. And he does lose everything to track this thing down. 

Marcus discovers he descends from an ancient race after his family is killed by a humanoid alien. He tracks it across the globe and exacts his revenge, only to discover that the rabbithole goes far, far down.
