I've been writing a lot more than usual. I've probably written more in the last 24 hours than I have the whole year. Why? 

Because I've set calendar-based goals. 

Basically, that just means that I'm chunked off blocks of time to write. I know what I'm suppose to write about. So, I just do it. In a 4 hour block of time, I've set aside one Pomodoro to write.

After that, I let myself do anything else I want to. But I make myself sit down and write for at least 25 minutes straght.

Now, my goal is to write at least 750 words during that time. I'm not going to beat myself up if I don't. But since I'm writing without worrying about the content, it ends up flowing fairly easily. 

Like right now. I've just written 138 words here without even really thinking about what I was going to write. 

Later, I'll probably come back and edit this. Correct mistakes and clarify things that I didn't explain properly. But it's nice just to let my thoughts flow here. 

See, the thing is...that I used to have one really big focus. Like I'd say to myself, "I'm gonna write a novel." And then I'd just start doing other stuff and never getting around to working on the novel. 

I'd look at my to-do list, and automatically start doing the little things that I could check off easily. Or else I'd just start doing things that weren't even on my to do list at all. 

Maybe check email or talk with someone or do some kind of busy work that would suck up my time. Then, I'd think, "Whoops, to late to work on that now. I'll do it tomorrow."

And then I would beat myself, because I didn't work on my BIG project. 

So, this is kind of a different way of looking at things. And it's been very interesting. 

I actually have 5 major projects going on. But since I have a specific time frame to work on it...I don't really have to think about what I should be working on right now. 

I just do whatever item is in my timeframe. Like right now...I'm in my personal blog timeframe. So, I can write about anything I want, as long as it goes on my personal blog. 

And since I only have to write for 25 minutes, this is really easy. I can just do it now...and then go back to checking my email, playing my guitar, or watching Breaking Bad. 

And I'm actually happy, because I've got one major thing done on my to-do list for the day. 

Another thing that may help, is that I've actually broken my to-do list into major projects. And I'm actually using a Gantt Project Managing software to keep track of what I'm doing. 

If I think of something I need to do, I just add it to my project list. Then, when it's time to work on that project...I just go to my task list and see what the next thing on the list is. 

That way, my to-do list stays really organized and uncluttered. Before, I would be looking at 40 different items broken from 10 different personal and business projects all thrown together. 

So, now my actual to-do list stays pretty clean and organized. And I can keep my attention fully on the task at hand. 

Now, I started doing this because I was frustrated with traditional time-management programs that all said the same thing:

1. Only have one major focus at a time
2. Don't have more then 7 things to do on your to-do list

And I tried really hard to follow that advice for a long time (like almost my whole adult life). 

But I was always frustrated...because I would always do a whole lot of things during the day. Just not the things that were on my to-do list. 

At the end of the day, I would look at my to-do list and see that there was nothing I could check off my list. 

So, I would think to myself, "I didn't get anything important done today." 

Now, I really had gotten lots of things done. Sure, maybe not all of it was real 'work', but a good part of it was. 

But since there was nothing to check off my list, there wasn't anything to celebrate. I'd just end up beating myself up for the seven things I hadn't done. 

I started changing the way I worked. Instead of writing down the things I wanted to do, I started adding the things I was actually doing. 

That way, I could check them off at the end of the day. And boy, did that feel good. I could see a huge list of things that I had accomplished. 

So now, I'm actually using a middle of the road approach. I write down some of the things I want to do...as well as the things that I'm doing. 

It seems to be working pretty well. 

Another thing that helps, is keeping my future to-do list items pretty generic. Instead of saying, "Write blog post about my new productivity habits"...I just put "Write blog post on my list". 

And when it comes time to work on it...I can edit my to-do list item so it accurately depicts what I did. 

I'm using Simpleology as my to-do list organizer, which has a nice feature that allows me to archive my checked off items to look over later. 

That way, I keep track of the thins that I want to work on, without painting myself into a corner. I know I have to get one major thing done in that block of time, but I still have plenty of freedom in how and when I do it. 

It motivates me to actually get things done. 

Like right now. Just pumping out this 1011 word blog post in the last 30 minutes. So, I guess that means, I put my kids to bed...and watch another episode of Breaking Bad. 

Yeah!
