I was 21, single, and ready to find myself a woman. Not sure why I thought I needed one at the time. But everyone else I knew had one...so I figured I'd better get with it. Or I'd end up sitting in a rocking chair on my front porch all alone. 

So, the first thing I decided to do was get fit. Go to the gym. Beef up a bit and grow some muscles. Not sure why...but that just seemed to be what most other guys who wanted a woman were doing.

I mean, if you talk to most girls...they don't even like hardcore weightlifters with all those bulging muscles. At least that's what most of the women I've surveyed about it say. I don't think my survey was very scientific...but the general consensus among the women I know...is that they just don't find huge muscles attractive. 

But I didn't know that when I was 21. I thought I needed the big, bulging muscles to attract the kind of women gorgeous and intelligent women I wanted. 

Isn't it funny how you're usually not intested in the people who are interested in you. I mean their were several women who made it very obvious they liked me...but there just didn't seem to be that mutual chemistry. 

I don't know...maybe I just set my sights to high. I always seemed to like the girls...who didn't seem to return the attraction. Maybe they just felt like me. 

Maybe it's just human nature to disregard what you have...and always want what you can't have. To desire the forbidden, out-of-reach things that we just can't have.  

Anyway...for whatever reason I felt I needed to buff up on some beef to find the woman of my dreams...I decided to join a gym. 

The first one I went to was the most obvious choice...since it was the closest one to my house. And it was really nice. I really liked it. It was brand new. It had lots of great equipment. I was very impressed. 

Now, I'm the kind of guy that likes to price-things...before I make my purchases. My wife tells me that I'm a miser...but I disagree. I appreciate getting a good deal...and I like finding a good bagain.

I wouldn't even really say it's about the price. I don't go for the cheapest thing. It's just the satisfaction of knowing that what you got was the best quality for the best price. 

That means you can do without some high-end features if they aren't really necessary. It's getting what you need...and not blowing cash on features you don't need and aren't going to use. 

So, back to my story...this was the first gym I went to. And I knew of a couple others in the area that I wanted to check out. 

But the 'salesman' who showed me around...seemed very determined to force me to sign a contract with him then and there. 

You know how, you get that funny feeling in the pit of your stomach...when you look in their eyes. I think that's what it must be like right before your eaten by cannibals. Like you know this is the end. Life as you once knew it was over. 

For the sake of storytelling, let's call my tourguide/salesman 'Jim'...not his real name (or it could be...because I really don't remember what his name was).

So, Jim ends our tour by taking me back to the interrogation room. Yeah, literally...that's what it was. A nice little room and all...but that's literally what it was. 

The room was bare, except for a small round table, a chair for Jim and I, and a little cubby to keep his papers. 

Jim told me to sit down and proceeded to grill me with all sorts of really strange questions. I was kind of lost at first. 

I mean the dude wanted to know where I worked and how much money I made. I was like...wtf? What does that have to do with working out? I mean what does the place I work at have to do with working out? 

I don't know...maybe he just wants to know how physically active I am...but the quesitons about my salary. C'mon. Even a someone fresh out of high-school knows where you're going with that question buddy.

I felt really uncomfortable, and just wanted to get out of there. I wanted Jim to shut up, shake my hand, and let me go. But he wouldn't stop asking me stupid questions he already knew the answer too. 

I started to give him evasive answers and hint around that I needed to go. But Jim would not give up. And he was really good. I have to give him that. 

He must have read most of Kevin Hogan's books on persuasion techniques. Because no matter how many ways I tried to say 'no'...he found a way to twist it back around into some positive reason for me to stay. 

He kept going on and on about how amazing it was that I just happened to show up that day...because he just had this amazing deal that was tailored just for me. His boss had just authorized it...and I had to act fast to take adavantage of it. 

I don't know how Jim kept smiling. I guess he was just good. Because now it was almost the end of the afternoon...and he kept that stupid smile plastered on his face the whole time. 

And then, I really don't know how it happened. I was sitting there was a contract in front of me. And I had a pen in my hand. The guy was smooth...I got to admit. I was sweating. Desperate. Asking stupid questions just to keep him talking...so I wouldn't have to sign it. 

So, finally I told him that I wanted to read the fine print in the contract. I just wanted him to shut up, so I could think for a bit. How was I going to get myself out of this one. 

I don't know why I didn't just stand up and walk out. I guess I wanted to be nice. I wanted to wait for permission. But he wouldn't give it. Jim wanted me to sign the contract. 


So, I read it. I read the whole contract. It wasn't that long, but I read it really slowly. Until I finally found a good excuse to get out of signing Jim's contract. 

It said something being tied down for 24 months to the gym. I don't remember the exact details...but basically that due to the amazing discount they were giving me...I had to promise to keep paying them for 2 years...no matter what. 

Bingo!

I told Jim that I was gonna be moving. And it was true. I really did plan on going to Brazil in about 6 months for an indefinite period of time. 

I was so proud of myself. I had him now. There was nothing Jim could say or do. I had it in print...in his own contract. It was so beautiful. 

"Oh, man! I won't be able to sign your contract Jim. I'll be moving to Brazil in about six months. I guess I can't join your amazingly wonderful gym here."

Man, I guess I really underestimated the power of Jim's determination and his years of shamwow training. Seriously. The guy didn't even blink. I thought my amazing excuse would trip him up enough to at least get a stammer out of him. 

But he aced it with flying colors. He answered it, like he had answered it a thousand times before. 

He said something about the fact that it wasn't that big of a deal. That the contract didn't really mean anything. It was just for formality. 

But I put my foot down. I wasn't about to cave in so easily and sign his contract. I was really worried about leaving a debt and getting a bad rap. 

"Well, let's go talk to my manager", he said. 

So, off we traipsed down to his boss' office. This one was a little bit nicer than Jim's. His boss was a little bit nicer too. 

But he was still pushing the same old pile of crap on me that Jim was. All I had to do was send them a light bill or water bill to prove that I had moved more than 50 miles away and they would cancel my contract. 

Now, I was desperate. I wasn't looking for a nice way to tell Jim I didn't want to work out in his stupid gym. I didn't ever want to see him again. 

In hindsight, I don't know why I was so worried about having an excuse to not sign up in the first place. I just went in to check this place out. There were others out there I wante to compare. 

But for some reason, I felt I had to have a good excuse to turn down Jim's amazing deal and special discount.

But I didn't walk out. Jim marched me back down to the interrogation room. And proceeded to wield his hypnotic persuasion techniques on me. 

It was really ridiculous. I had already quit trying to make up excuses as to why I didn't want to sign up. I was moving. And I wasn't ready to commit. 

I felt like a mule who had already made up his mind that he wasn't going to move now matter how much the farmer pushes. But Jim just kept pushing. 

He kept pushing for a reason. Why? He kept asking. 

I should have just stood up and walked out. But I didn't. I wanted to be a nice guy and help Jim understand why he was being rejected. Like it hurt his feelings. I felt bad. 

Even as naive as I was, I guess I still knew it was just his sleezy salesman tactics...which made me feel stupid for falling for it. But bad if I didn't give him a good reason. 

But finally, I couldn't take it any longer and told him 'no'...for the final time. I guess he realized it too. Because he quit pushing. He just stopped.  

I like to think it was my firmness. But in reality, he probably just wanted to get home. 

So, he leaned back with a really ugly look on his face. And then he said, "Well, you can go back to work and start saving your pennys. Because if you ever come back here again, you're gonna pay the full price. I won't give you this discount again. 

I guess I should have been sad. Sad Jim wasn't going to give me a discount. Sad I wouldn't get to work out in his gym. 

But I didn't. I felt really happy. Well, maybe not happy. Just relieved. Relieved to be out of there without signing his contract under pressure. Glad I was able to say no. In a way I felt stronger. More manly. 

In other ways, I felt bad I wasted so much time there. Silly for not just having stood up and walking out on him. 

But it was an experience. And like all experiences, I learned from it. 

Call people on their shit. Don't make excuses. Be honest. Be real.
